96666338464

00:00
Good morning. Thanks for the taking the time today. How are you doing today? As you can tell, today's market is super volatile, right? Yeah, that's right. Yeah, sure. Yeah. So thank you very much for your time taking this. It's our first call. So basically, we also want to take the chance to introduce ourselves and to maybe give you a brief introduction about why we wanted to study the trademark on this company, right. 

00:32
So basically we are paging, we are in more like a journalist model, so. We are basically facing Hong Kong, but we are looking for opportunities across the APAC areas. And the reason why we want to see see more about the trademark coin is that this company looks very cheap, right? So they have a very strong balance sheet know that Emperor cash balance. 

01:04
As far as there are massive amount of deferred revenue, we should be coming from the subscription of Sauce, right. So we think from from AP angle, right. So because there was some numerous last year or the year before that there were. 

01:26
Like Ben, who wants to privatize the company, so we also wanted to know. Or what kind of dynamics over there And basically give us a teaching about the company, right? Because you can treat us as we have 0 knowledge about the company, right? How should we think about its product, its vision? One product, I think is the main product, the revenue created. So how should we look at the company? And why? Why the company is suffering from the price decline recently? 

02:03
Yeah, that, that's a very broad introduction technocent. OK, sure. OK. So thanks for your introduction and explanation. Yeah, totally. I agree with this opinion. So you know, so even concerning the severe earnings trend this fiscal year driven by aggressive upfront investment, their valuation is so super cheap I think and also you know. 

02:33
Concerning the increase in the importance of so cyber security measures in the world. You know, I think that they will be highly likely, they will be, you know, highly likely to be acquired by other companies including private equity in in the future. So you know, I think in terms of the recent variation and high probabilities of being acquired by other companies. 

03:06
Yeah. So Trend Micro is so very interesting company. So the reason why their share price has declined in the last roughly 6 months? 

03:19
It's roughly, you know, 2 reasons. So first reason is the deterioration of the fundamentals, so you know. This is driven by the, you know that cluster security demands environment in USA and Europe. So this is macroeconomic situation, so deterioration. So this applies to all security companies. So, so trade micro has suffered from severe demand involvement for antivirus software. 

03:54
In the USA and URL. So this is the first reason. So second reason is not fundamentals but a very important. So this is a decrease in probabilities of being acquired by private equity in the near future. So you know. 

04:13
Until last September. You know, so value up, so activist value Act are owned roughly around the six 7% equity shares in Trend Micro. So many investors think that. 

04:34
When so? So concerning that Value Act all has owned their equity shares of Trend Micro going forward, you know there are other possibilities of being acquired in Trend Micro seems to be very high because you know activist. 

05:00
Seems to negotiate with you know, private equity in terms of the acquisition of Trend Micro. So some investors saw that so but you know, last September Value Act disclosed that so they have sold some equity shares of grandmother to some extent from 7% to roughly less than 4% and you know. 

05:30
Until now, you know the actual percentage. So what do you have to own very uncertain, but I think that you know roughly 0%. So you know I think that value up has already. 

05:50
So disposed a lot of equity shares in Trend Micro, so many investors think that this. This decreases the probabilities of being acquired by other by private equity in trend in the near future. So you know after that you know many event driven friends so has sold equity shares of trend Microsoft. So because of these two reasons their equity. 

06:24
Their valuation has developed a lot, but I think that these two negative factors have already priced in and I think that all the environment in the near future, all the environment have been gradually recovering in outside Japan. I think so totally. You know, it is a good entry timing to take long position on this company. That's all for me. OK, OK. 

06:55
Our our dad's super helpful. I just wanted to confirm why the there is a fundamental decline in the overall sector Where where is that deceleration coming from? Because as far as I know, AI actually. 

07:13
Actually help on the other side of the cybersecurity for the package, right? The number of hackings increases are exponentially over the years, right, right. 

07:25
Where's the best AI can assist one single hacker to hack maybe millions of computers which quietly needs like a people of care or 20 to do so, but for now they just need one very experienced hacker to do massive amounts of hacking. So on that phone I think, I think there is a border. 

07:50
Necessity from companies who require a more robust cybersecurity. Solution right? But why there is a you you called it cyclic code? 

08:07
But why there is a such fundamental change in the industry? Hi, yes, I think that you know. So firstly, you know before. 

08:20
Commenting about AI and disruption. So you know, overall security market has expanded by around, you know roughly around over slightly higher than 10% in the last 10 years. And I think that this trend will continue going forward, but in the one to two years. 

08:45
So first. So one to two years first, so you know due to the. Price hike, Sorry, I would receive. Site of interest rate in US, so you know, overall IT service demands including security software has deteriorated in USA in the last one to two years. So you know global IT service companies including security companies. 

09:15
Suffering from this situation so recently, you know, last year due to the rest property this situation has. Some more. Deteriorating but but you know, as I said earlier, the order environment helping gradually recovering in the world but. 

09:38
Under these environments, so market has expanded by over 10% but you know there are very heavy competitive environment in the security software. So for the micro domain product is antivirus software, antivirus software. 

09:58
So this is you know called as endpoint security software very big market. So you know in the security market there are two big two kinds of big market 1 is endpoint security software. So this is our main category for trend Microsoft antivirus software and the other big market is. 

10:23
Network security so such as firewall and so on. So you know the main player is you know other networks and the 14 edge and checkpoint software technologies. So so in the first big market, current micro has somewhat high market share in the world. So roughly you know 4:00 to 5:00. 

10:49
4 to 5 rankings in the world, but there are two super, super strong competitors in this market. So first is Microsoft and the second is Crowdstrike. So I think that in the last similar years, these two companies have been increasing their market share away from other competitors including Trend Micro. So basically, you know, based on the continuous. 

11:17
Market expansion Trend Micro revenue growth has been a positive growth rate. But in terms of the market share, Trend Micro global market share has been decreasing gradually in the last few years and I think that. 

11:36
This trend will continue going forward because two top competitors are too strong in this market. But considering the you know. 

11:48
Steady market expansion, Trend Micro overseas revenue will be continuously posted growth rate. So this is the first comment. And lastly second point, AI, so you as you said AI will be big potential for security market. 

12:09
So at present, many investors are, you know, concerned about AI disruption and so AI advancement. So, you know, luckily they think that this will be negative for our security market. But in fact, I don't think so because, you know, as you said, AI will increase. 

12:36
So cyber security, threat by hackers, attackers and so on. So you know these two AI AI 2 will help. So cyber security hacker develop their so, so viruses so in the world. So I think this is very positive factor for security over the market because in the past increase in the security threats leads to the market expansion and I think this time. 

13:14
Is the same so you know increase in the generative AI, increase in the cyber security attack generated by generative AI will relate to the market expansion report. So I think after coming down in the equity market more and more investors will come to recognize this product. So totally you know this will be possible for our. 

13:39
I'm also thinking about that because in terms of number of hackings, right, we, we, we can definitely see that it's increasing, right? But but I have a general question about whether the security company like Macron can pass through. 

14:04
The cost because with the increased number of hacks, right? The the house to defend cybersecurity is also increasing, right? They need to spend more resources on their side, develop more advanced software to to defend, right. So the cost is also high. Whether there is a industry consensus to increase prices to pass through the cost back to or maybe at some premium, right, it's just pass through. 

14:39
Is margin on. Right. So it's not good for much and because you just pass through the the the past whether they can even add some premium for the increasing number of hackings from the AI to the customer, that's more important for this kind of cybersecurity company. So it's more like related to the competitor. 

15:09
Right, so as you tell. They have very large competitors like Microsoft and Cloud Strike. So 2 questions whether they can increase the the, the prices on the industry level to pass through or to become margin accretive, right? That that's question number one. And question number 2 is whether the Trend Micro product. 

15:39
Is really competitive with its competitors like Microsoft. And false strike which are multi multi biggest than the micro trend. So how how their product compare with the? 

15:59
Competitive. OK, sure. So in terms of first question, you know, I think that concerning the very strong increase in the, you know, increase in the security demands driven by the increase in the cybersecurity threats by generative AI, I think that as well as the past situation it will be. 

16:26
Somewhat easy for security companies to pass on the cost apps onto the product price very easily. I think so because you know. 

16:40
Global global enterprises, global clients put the importance on. Security measures most in terms of IT investment in every aspect. 

16:54
So you know, the first priority for our global clients in terms of IT investment is continuously our security cybersecurity measures. So you know and you know, since the number of cybersecurity companies are limited in the world and the increase the the the security threats by generative AI. 

17:20
Will increase drastically in the near future. So you know, demand environment will be very strong I think. So you know, due to this situation it is a little bit easy for. 

17:35
Second defender to pass it on to the product price and I think that actually you know, I don't I do not think I do not think that their cost. 

17:51
I will increase necessary I think because you know, you know. Not only security hackers, but also. Security companies have utilized generated AI in detecting viruses in their software and hardware program. So you know, it means that you know. 

18:19
So increase cybersecurity threats will increase but by means of. Obviously, the utilization of generative AI is security software. So total security costs regarding the control of this software will not increase so much I think so you know, compared to other industries, security companies. 

18:49
Have utilized the generative AI in detection of antivirus since the. 2015, so roughly 10 years ago, so they have already utilized and you know. 

19:06
So labor productivity in. In detecting viruses having increasing in terms with the AI advancement. So I think that my opinion is that so so related to the cost will not increase so much necessarily and if if it. 

19:32
So if it does in the future, so you know it is easy for them to pass on it through the, you know product class. This is the first question. 

19:43
And lastly, a second question, competitive environment. So I think technology power. So, you know, Trend Micro technology power is relatively good in this market. So I don't think that Microsoft is better than that of Trend Micro. So, you know, in terms of technology power, I think cloud strike technology power is number one in this standard point. I think #2 is, you know. 

20:18
Trend Micro, Microsoft, these are the same level but compared to Trend Micro, so Microsoft is in very good position because they can sell security software with their other software such as so Office, Office software, so Excel, PowerPoint, Word and so on. So you know. 

20:45
They're crossing, it's so strong. So you know, I think that in terms of technology power, Trend Micro is in good position. But concerning the. 

20:59
Potential of cross selling of other products, Microsoft will be able to increase their market share going forward. So so that you know. 

21:13
Market share for Trend Micro, we will not improve going forward. I think luckily, you know market market. Expansion roughly 10% and Trend Micro overseas growth rate will be you know so around 5 to 6% supporting I see, I see, I see, I see, I see. Thank you. And actually do you have the data? 

21:44
Of the market share in terms of two important segments you mentioned, which is the endpoint software plus the network security separately and send, send the data to us like the market share of the major players. 

22:02
Yeah, you know I have yeah. So some data week, so you know, based on the gardener and IDC and you know in terms of endpoint security software, I have some data. So you know, although you know 2025 update, 2025 data is not updated. So roughly you know, until 2023 or 2024. 

22:31
But I have some data of it. But in terms of network security area, you know Gartner has not so disclosed this data in the last five years. So you know, I have some limited data about that. OK, OK. Just provide us any data you have about the market here. Thank you. And actually how how people? 

22:58
Trace the company and if there is a margin pressure of the company wise that instead just due to the. Industry in doctor. 

23:13
No, I don't think this is industry French, but you know Trend Micro has aggressively used upfront investments. So from this basically award, so until last fiscal year, you know they're opening product margin has improved so much by aggressive cost control, especially in the labor cost and so on. 

23:40
But from this fiscal year onwards, you know. So they would like to invest in the so new business area. So you know a factory security solution and automotive embedded software security solution and so on. So you know because of these upfront investment, their initial guidance of operating profit is negative, slightly negative growth rate. So this is not the deterioration of demand environment, but the increase in the upfront investment. 

24:20
So based on them from next fiscal year forward, so December 2027 from next year, so you know due to the peaking out of upfront investment, operating profit will turn to positive growth rate according to them and I think their opinion. 

24:44
OK. So it's more like a decision made made by the company. They wanted to invest more for the future and for the IMDb? Sure. This year that's right, OK. And because the company also sets a very. 

25:03
Ambitious growth rates of revenue. So, so how do you think about the likelihood to achieve that maybe ambitious packet, how should we think about that? 

25:18
Yeah. I think that concerning the first characteristic of guidance, I think that they tend to be a little bit aggressive and ambitious. I think so you know, this year's revenue guidance seems to be a little bit. 

25:39
Optimistic I think based on recent global market situation, so, so I think opening profit guidance is. You know, within achievable level, but revenue guidance seems to be a little bit optimistic for me. 

26:02
OK. And I think you just have half an hour shop, right or you can do a slightly longer? Yeah, sorry, I have to go to the next meeting. OK. OK. So I just wanted to confirm one last question from us. Why the prior PE like failed fair to to acquire or trademark and what kind of dynamics you can provide about the privatization or acquisition of the company? 

26:37
Yes, I think that you know. They are there have been affected by. So AI disruption, concerns about AI disruption in the whole sector, I think so. You know many. 

26:54
Japanese system integrators including, you know, Trend Micro, so PE variation is, you know, historical lowest level so at present so because you know. 

27:10
I think that based on recent conversation with many investors, so they are very confusing. Confusing about AI disruption, so you know, they do not know the details of AI disruption and so future outlook in this sector. So you know, because of the panic and and air disruption are concerned. So you know P evaluation has dropped over you know less than their fundamentals I think. 

27:43
So it applies to friend of mine, So Trend Micro I think. Unlike other companies, so Trend Micro opening product growth rate in the near future. So this fiscal year is you know negative growth rate. So due to the aggressive Uphold investment. So you know some short term investors dislike this company because of because Trend Micro is the one of the very limited companies of operating. 

28:15
Decline this fiscal year, so you know, due to these concerns and short term investors are disliking, you know, P valuation is the historical lowest level. But I think after seeing watching, you know, gradual order recovery variation will recover in Trend Micro and more and more investors. 

28:43
Have come to recognize that the possibilities of being acquired by other companies in print micro has been increasing recently because even EBITDA margin is luck, you know hyper to take 5 to 6 times, but sector average is you know roughly 11 times and globally you know, compared to global competitors, you know there are two. 

29:09
So 2G bicycle, OK. So I just wanted to quickly confirm for Dell cash balance which is largely coming from the deferred revenue right in the Japanese, whether the company can use that cash for if they after acquisition or privatization? 

29:32
Basically you know they have already achieved 100% of total shareholder return policy in brand by under the under the you know value Act in the last one to two years. So you know they said that basically you know they will continue 100% of total shareholder return policy return yield. So you know. 

29:57
They cannot change their how to use their cash going forward. So you know the main. Main method of using cache is basically, you know, call. So equity shareholder return are going forward. OK, OK. Thank you. Thank you very much. Yeah, thank you. Thank you. See you next Chef. Bye. 